# Laboratory work
## Mock community samples
(Jusino et al., 2019)[https://doi.org/10.1111/1755-0998.12951] document how mock community data were generated. DNA extracted from voucher arthropod specimen was amplified using their novel ANML primers . PCR products were cloned into plasmid vectors and Sanger sequenced to match specimen taxonomy with sequence identity. Taxonomic identities were assigned by a trained entomologist’s visual identification and were confirmed by manually aligning sequences to NCBI’s nt database.

Guano samples were thawed and transferred to individual wells of a 96-well plate and extracted using the Qiagen DNEasy PowerSoil Kit (Cat No. 12955-4, Qiagen, Hilden, Germany) following manufacturer guidelines. Samples were eluted with 60 µL of elution buffer. Extraction blanks were included for each plate. We used a dual-indexed primer pair inspired by Kozich et al. (2013). This design incorporates both the necessary generic elements of Illumina adapters while allowing for customized barcodes and COI-targeted primer sequences. The COI-specific region of primers match that previously described by Jusino et al. (2019), resulting in primer pairs (ANMLxf:5’-AATGATACGGCGACCACCGAGATCTACAC<i5>TATGGTAATTCGGGTCAACAAATCATAAAGATATTGG-3’) and (ANMLxr:5’-CAAGCAGAAGACGGCATACGAGAT<i7>AGTCAGTCAGCCGGWACTAATCAATTTCCAAATCC-3’), where i5 and i7 represent a unique 8 bp barcode. Lists for all possible primer pairs with barcodes are listed in the metadata directory of the Github repo for this project (https://github.com/devonorourke/tidybug/blob/master/data/metadata/primerpairs.txt). We used 25 µL reactions with 10 µL of extracted DNA, 1 µL each of 10 mM forward and reverse primer pairs, and 13 µL of AccuStart II PCR SuperMix (Quanta BioSciences, Gaithersburg, MD, USA). Mock community samples were amplified using a distinct primer pair that was not used on any guano samples for any libraries in this study. Furthermore, mock samples were amplified in a separate reaction from guano samples to avoid any potential cross contamination. For the mock samples, 1 µL of template DNA (10 ng/uL) with 9 µL of nuclease free water was used in lieu of 10 µL of guano extract. Reaction conditions consisted of an initial denaturation step at 95 °C for 2 min, followed by 30 cycles of denaturation at 95 °C for 20 s, annealing at 50 °C for 15 s, and extension at 72 °C for 60 s; and a final extension at 72 °C for 10 min. PCR products were quantified using a PicoGreen assay (Invitrogen, Carlsbad, CA, USA) and Tecan plate reader with excitation and emission wavelengths of 480 nm and 520 nm, respectively (Tecan Group, Männedorf, Switzerland). Samples were pooled in approximately equimolar ratios; because there were hundreds of samples pooled in a single library, the exact expected equimolar volumes were rounded to the nearest bin (bin sizes set at 0.5, 0.75, 1.0, 1.25, 1.5, 2.0, 2.5, 3.5, 4.5, 5.5, 6.5, 7.5, 8.5, 9.5, 10, 15, or 20 µL). Extraction blanks or guano samples with detectable DNA that exceeded the maximum pool bin volume were included at a fixed volume of 20 µL. The initial pool volume was reduced with a vacuum concentrator to approximately 2 mL and was cleaned with a QIAquick PCR purification kit (Qiagen, Hilden, Germany); libraries were eluted in 30 µL elution buffer. Libraries were quantified with a Qubit High Sensitivity assay (Thermo Fisher Scientific, Waltham, MA, USA) and fragment sizes were analyzed using TapeStation D1000 ScreenTape (Agilent Technologies, Santa Clara, CA, USA). Libraries were submitted to Northern Arizona University and sequenced using an Illumina MiSeq platform (Illumina, San Diego, CA, USA) using v3 chemistry with 600 cycles of 2x300 bp paired-end read lengths. Raw sequence reads available at NCBI BioProject PRJNA518082 (https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/bioproject/PRJNA518082).
